* Need for the school to follow recommendations of new acreditting bodies
* Increased school-wide awareness (beyond the high school) of the trend and benefits of standards-education
 * Middle and Primary were not using standards at all prior to 2014
* Interest of author to build a better system for Subject Coordinators

Leadership of Ipeka IICS has expressed a need for aggregate information on several questions: ESLR (expected schoolwide learning results) coverage, biblical integration coverage. It is also desired to know how well the mandated NESA curricular requirements are being implemented. These data are needed for two major reasons. First, to validate the acreditation requirements for the various acredditation bodies that govern the school. Second, for the internal direction of the school, to validate that what is being taught in classrooms accurately coresponds to organizational vision and goals.

Historically only the IICS high school has engaged in standards-based education, drawing the standards from the nearby international NSW Board of Studies as an attempt to provide added value to students and parents from the national curriculum. Teacher lesson planning has lagged behind, which is not suprpising as this phenomenon is discussed in some detail in Torff. But in recent years an emphasis on gathering data has led to several departments producing consistent and detailed daily lesson plans that (ideally) conform to the written curriculum maps. 

At the same time, a greater awareness of the benefits of using standards to measure education has permeated the rest of the school and parental community. It was demanded that a consistent set of standards were applied not only to the high school but also the middle and primary schools. The process of implementing these practices at other levels began in 2014. 

But gathering of data is not the same as understanding data or having actionable data. Last year, when school leadership demanded to know how well biblical integration coverage was progressing (a key organizational value), the only solution offerred to collate this data was reading through a sampling of lesson plans by hand. Although teachers were using digital templates to build lesson plans, the producied documents are currently stored in a shared school folder. As in mentioned frequently in studies of data analysis, "data on the drive is useless" CITATION

Thus the current project proposal is to build an automated system to perform a standard ETL (extract, transform, load) process on the existing digital documents, sending them into a text analysis engine. Further, this project proposes to configure automated and on-demand _visual_ reporting on the analyzed data. This system will thus use the existing data with minimal changes to employee workflow, but provide the opportunity for school leadership to easily answer the present questions about aggregate data, as well as being flexible enough to inform future data-driven decisionmaking.

Considered and set aside were ideas that would more radically alter the workflow of teachers by having them build lesson plans with a new software solution. While such an approach has its advantages, the size of work required exceeds the scope of the WGU capstone project and potentially duplicates other planned IT solutions.
