The world is flooded with data, but too often that data is unused, deemed too difficult to analyze, or misunderstood. Schools are not unusual in this sense: each producing large amounts of data for student and teacher alike. Especially in an era where curriculums and educational priorities are shifting to emphasizing _written standards_, there are ample reasons that schools need to now use the data they have been collecting: to ensure they are fulfilling their own mission, to verify to independent standards commitees that they meet said standards, and to help students understand their own education.

This project aims to assist a local private school, Ipeka IICS, to understand their own data. The school now teaches to a standard and is rapidly moving towards getting all departments and teachers on board with this education practice. They have been implementing requirements for teachers to produce daily lesson plans to track what they are teaching. Critical to convincing students, parents, and accreditors that what they are teaching is what they _say_ they are teaching is analyzing and understanding the data that they already have.

To acheieve this goal, the author proposes setting up an automated workflow for processing existing and future date into a persistent database. This database will be queried for desired information as needed, and the results _visualized_ in a simple-to-understand way. Administrators, coordinators, teachers, parents, and students will all be able to see immediate and relevant data about how they are being educated.

Existing work in this area will be reviewed, both from an educational and a technological perspective. A rationale for why this particular approach is suggested will be examined. The proposed project will be the work of a single developer, so an agile software approach is preferred as one accomodating potentially rapid shifts in requirements. The established goal, objectives for how to acheive that goal, and milestones on the road to those objectives will all be discussed. 

