The goal of this proposal is to determine whether teaching matches educational goals, and this goal will be answered with three objectives. Existing data must be extracted, transformed, and loaded into a database. That database must then be configured to quickly search for complex queries across the available data. These queries must be presented in a simple and pleasing visual way.

First, existing data must be made usable. A standard ETL (extract, transform, load) process will be applied to existing lesson plan data. Extraction consists of reading the information in whatever format it already exists. Transforming, a key step, consists of adding structure to the data in order to make it more easily searchable for certain types of data. Loading is simply sending this prepared data into a the database. 

Second, the database must be configured to allow for fast, complex queries on the dataset that has been loaded into it. For instance, a database of lesson plans could be queried to determine how many hours each teacher has spent in the classroom in a given school year, and which topics have been most frequently addressed by each teacher. At this point, since the project aims to continue with visualization, the returned results are likely not especially human-readable.

Third, the query/search results must be presented to users in a friendly and easy to understand _visual_ way. This last step is of utmost importance, since it is critical to not just have data, but to be able to understand it. It is expected that this objective will provide a webpage which allows for reports on current data to easily be seen and downloaded.

